the UN Security Council is expected to
vote in the coming hours on a resolution
calling for the suspension of
hostilities in Gaza the vote has already
been delayed twice this week as
diplomats have been negotiating with the
United States on the wording of the
resolution earlier this month Washington
vetoed a resolution calling for a
ceasefire the latest draft calls on the
parties of the conflict in Gaza to
comply with their obligations under
international law regarding the
protection of civilians it also calls
for Urgent and extended humanit Aran
pauses and corridors throughout the Gaza
Strip for a sufficient number of days to
enable full Rapid Safe and unhindered
humanitarian access additionally it
calls for the immediate and
unconditional release of all hostages
let bringing our correspondent Gabriel
elizando he's joining us live from the
UN headquarters in New York so many
delays Gabe what's been the hold up and
what are we expecting
tonight well the holdup has quite
frankly been the United States that's
very clear because the United States uh
is uh clearly not satisfied with the
original draft uh that came out on
Friday there was circulated on Friday
that called uh for a suspension I'm
sorry called for a cessation of
hostilities so they asked for that
wording to be changed it was changed to
suspension of hostilities a less
permanent uh uh term there uh and it's
been the United States that we think has
been continuing to ask for changes and
modifications uh behind the scenes in
closed doors but at some point uh the
other members of the security Council
primarily the United Arab Emirates which
is drafted and essentially sponsoring
this resolution has to either agree to
continue delays or not and so we are
believe now that uh there will be a vote
uh within the next hour or two in the
security Council and uh at that point we
will see what happens uh on this now
this first draft came out last Friday so
this has been now we're on day five
almost uh almost into day six if you
will on this draft being reviewed by the
United States and other other Security
Council Members this is a hugely
important uh Security Council resolution
uh it has wide support by Security
Council Members it will pass that is
very clear the only thing that would
prevent it from passing is if the United
States chooses to veto it and we are
being told between two sources
diplomatic sources
uh been speaking to Al jazer have said
that they are hearing that the US has
not taken off the table the option to
veto we have not heard from the United
States we'll wait until that vote
happens but uh clearly there has been a
lot of last minute negotiations but
according to two diplomatic sources that
told Al jazer that they are hearing that
the United States has not taken off the
table the option for a potential VTO
Gabe thank you very much for that that
is Gabriel alzando live at the UN
headquarters in New York for now